Chapter 10 of the Gospel according to St. Matthew, King James Version. This LibriVox recording is in the public domain
recording by Michael Packard
And when he called unto him his twelve disciples
He gave them power against unclean spirits to cast them out and to heal all manner of sickness and
all manner of disease
Now the names of the twelve Apostles are these the first Simon who was called Peter and Andrew his brother
James the son of Zebedee and John his brother
Philip and Bartholomew Thomas and Matthew the publican James the son of Alpheus in
Labais whose surname was Thaddeus
Simon the Canaanite and
Judas Iscariot who also betrayed him
These twelve Jesus sent forth and commanded them saying go not
Into the way of the Gentiles and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not
but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel and
As ye go preach saying
The kingdom of heaven is at hand
Heal the sick cleanse the lepers raise the dead cast out devils
freely ye have received
freely give
Provide neither gold nor silver nor brass in your purses
nor script for your journey
neither two coats neither shoes
nor yet staves
for the workmen is worthy of his meat and
Into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter
Inquire who in it is worthy and there abide till ye go thence and
When ye come into an house salute it and if the house be worthy
Let your peace come upon it
but if it be not worthy let your peace return to you and
Whosoever shall not receive you nor hear your words when ye depart out of that house or city
Shake off the dust of your feet
Verily I say unto you it
Shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city
Behold I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves
be ye therefore wise as serpents and
harmless as doves
But beware of men
for they will deliver you up to the councils and
They will scourge you in their synagogues and ye shall be brought before governors and
Kings for my sake
for a testimony against them in the Gentiles
But when they deliver you up
Take no thought how or what ye shall speak
For it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak
For it is not ye that speak but the spirit of your father which speaketh in you and
The brother shall deliver up the brother to death and the father the child and
The children shall rise up against their parents and cause them to be put to death and
Ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake
But he that endureth to the end shall be saved
But when they persecute you in this city flee ye into another
For verily I say unto you ye shall not have gone over the cities of Israel
till the Son of Man become
The disciple is not above his master nor the servant above his Lord
It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master and
the servant as his Lord
If they have called the master of the house be Elzebub
How much more shall they call them of his household?
Fear them not therefore
For there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed and hid that shall not be known
What I tell you in darkness that
speak ye in light and
What ye hear in the ear?
that preach ye upon the housetops and
Fear not them which kill the body
But are not able to kill the soul
But rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell
Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing and
One of them shall not fall on the ground
without your father
But the very hairs of your head are all numbered
Fear ye not therefore
Ye are of more value than many sparrows
Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men
Him will I confess also before my father which is in heaven
But whosoever shall deny me before men
Him will I also deny before my father which is in heaven
Think not that I am come to send peace on earth. I came not to send peace
but a sword
For I am come to set a man at variance against his father and the daughter against her mother and
the daughter-in-law
Against her mother-in-law and a man's foes shall be they of his own household
He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me and
He that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me and
He that taketh not his cross and followeth after me is not worthy of me
He that findeth his life shall lose it and he that looseth his life for my sake shall find it
He that receiveth you receiveth me and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me
He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall
Receive a prophet's reward and he that receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall
Receive a righteous man's reward
And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only
In the name of a disciple
Verily I say unto you he shall in no while
Lose his reward
End of chapter 10
recording by Michael Packard